.\" Freeciv - Copyright (C) 1996 - A Kjeldberg, L Gregersen, P Unold
.\"   This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"   it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"   the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\"   any later version.
.\"
.\"   This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"   GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.TH FREECIV 6 "July 1st 2004"
.SH NAME
civclient \- The client for the Freeciv game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B civclient \
[ -a|--autoconnect ] [ -d|--debug \fIlevel\fP ] [ -h|--help ] \
[ -l|--log \fIlogfile\fP ] [ -m|--meta \fIserver\fP ] \
[ -n|--name \fIname\fP ] [ -p|--port \fIport\fP ] \
[ -P|--Plugin \fIplugin\fP ] [ -s|--server \fIserver\fP ] \
[ -S|--Sound \fItags\fP ] [ -t|--tiles \fItiles\fP ] [ -v|--version ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Freeciv is a free turn-based multiplayer strategy game, in which each player
becomes the leader of a civilization, fighting to obtain the ultimate goal:
To become the greatest civilization.

Players of Civilization II\*R by Microprose\*R should feel at home, since one
aim of Freeciv is to have compatible rules.

Freeciv is maintained by an international team of coders and enthusiasts, and is
easily one of the most fun and addictive network games out there!

This is the client program used to connect to a Freeciv server - See also
.IR civserver (6)

This manual page only lists the command line arguments. For details
regarding the options when using
.B civclient
see the Client Manual which can be found at
.UR
http://www.freeciv.org/
.UE
as well as the documentation which is part of the Freeciv distribution.
.SH OPTIONS
.I civclient
accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options along with the
additional options listed below. Those may not be combined; that is,
"civclient -np caesar 5556" will not work, instead you would need to enter
"civclient -n caesar -p 5556". All options have a short form (single
hyphen and single letter) and a long form (double hyphen and a complete word);
their effects are identical.
.TP
.BI "-a, --autoconnect"
Skips the connect dialog, automatically inserts the default values. This is
quite convenient when all has been set up properly.
.TP
.BI "-d, --debug"
Sets the debug log level (0 to 3) of information to be logged. Use the
.I -l
option to send the logging to a file.
.TP
.BI "-h, --help"
Prints a short summary of the options.
.TP
.BI "-l, --log"
Specifies the file to be used as a logfile for logging. Use the
.I -d
option to set the amount of loggin.
.TP
.BI "-m, --meta"
Connect to the given metaserver, a place where Freeciv servers can publish their
presence. Freeciv clients consult the metaserver to offer users a selection of
games to join.
.TP
.BI "-n, --name"
Specifies the name to play under. This option is critical when reconnecting to
a game. Please note that you might need to quote your playername.
.TP
.BI "-p, --port"
Specifies the server port to connect to. By default this is 5555, if in doubt
ask the server administrator.
.TP
.BI "-P, --Plugin"
Specifies to use one of [none, esd, sdl] for sound output.
.TP
.BI "-s, --server"
The game server to connect to. This server might easily run on the same machine
as the client.
.TP
.BI "-S, --Sound"
Specifies where to read the sound tags from.
.TP
.BI "-t, --tiles"
Indicates a tilespec to be used for tiles within the game.
.TP
.BI "-v, --version"
Prints the version number.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
civclient --name "King Richard" --server io.daimi.aau.dk

civclient -a -t trident
.SH FILES
.TP
.BI ~/.civclientrc
This is where your local settings will be stored.
.TP
.BI tilespecs
The Freeciv client requires several files in the Freeciv data directory,
which is
.I /usr/local/share/freeciv
by default. Currently the following tilespecs can be used:

\(bu
.I isotrident.tilespec

\(bu
.I trident.tilespec

\(bu
.I trident_shields.tilespec
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The Freeciv client accepts these environment variables:
.TP
.BI FREECIV_PATH
A colon separated list of directories pointing to the
.B freeciv
data directory. By default freeciv looks in the following directories, in order,
for any data files: the current directory; the "data" subdirectory of the
current directory; the subdirectory ".freeciv" in the user's home directory; and
the directory where the files are placed by running "make install".
.TP
.BI FREECIV_LOCAL_ENCODING
The local encoding to be used.
.TP
.BI http_proxy
Set this variable accordingly when using a proxy.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to
.UR
http://rt.freeciv.org/
.UE
\.
.SH "MORE INFO"
The Freeciv homepage is located at
.UR
http://www.freeciv.org/
.UE
\.

Updates and new info is first posted there.
.SH AUTHORS
The Freeciv Team <freeciv-dev AT freeciv.org>.

This manpage was put together by Florian Ernst <florian_ernst AT gmx.net> using
the Client Manual and the comments in the sourcecode. Feel free to use it as
you wish.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR civserver (6)
and the Client Manual at the Freeciv homepage.
