.\" Freeciv - Copyright (C) 1996 - A Kjeldberg, L Gregersen, P Unold
.\"   This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"   it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"   the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\"   any later version.
.\"
.\"   This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"   GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.TH FREECIV 6 "July 1st 2004"
.SH NAME
civserver \- The server for the Freeciv game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B civserver \
[ -b|--bind \fIaddress\fP ] [ -d|--debug \fIlevel\fP ] \
[ -f|--file \fIsavegame\fP ] [ -g|--gamelog \fIgamelog\fP ] [ -h|--help ] \
[ -i|--info \fIinfo\fP ] [ -l|--log \fIlogfile\fP ] [ -m|--meta ] \
[ -M|--Metaserver \fIserver\fP ] [ -p|--port \fIport\fP ] \
[ -q|--quitidle \fIseconds\fP ] [ -e|--exit-on-end ] \
[ -r|--read \fIfile\fP ] [ -v|--version ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Freeciv is a free turn-based multiplayer strategy game, in which each player
becomes the leader of a civilization, fighting to obtain the ultimate goal:
To become the greatest civilization.

Players of Civilization II\*R by Microprose\*R should feel at home, since one
aim of Freeciv is to have compatible rules. 

Freeciv is maintained by an international team of coders and enthusiasts, and is
easily one of the most fun and addictive network games out there!

This is the server program used to establish a Freeciv server - See also
.IR civclient (6)

This manual page only lists the command line arguments. For details
of the directives necessary to configure
.B civserver
see the Server Manual which can be found at
.UR
http://www.freeciv.org/
.UE
as well as the documentation which is part of the Freeciv distribution.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are accepted on the command line of the server. They may
not be combined; that is, "civserver -fp savegame.sav 555" will not work,
instead you would need to enter "civserver -f savegame.sav -p 555". All options
have a short form (single hyphen and single letter) and a long form (double
hyphen and a complete word); their effects are identical.
.TP
.BI "-b, --bind"
Sets the address on which the server will listen for clients.
.TP
.BI "-d, --debug"
Sets the amount of debugging information to be logged in the file named by the
.I -l
option. The number should be 0 for fatal errors only, 1 for fatal and normal
messages, 2 for fatal, normal, and debugging messages, or 3 for very verbose
output.
.TP
.BI "-f, --file"
Loads a saved game into the server before initialization, instead of starting a
new game. This is for reloading saved games, or for loading scenarios.
.TP
.BI "-g, --gamelog"
Defines a log file to be produced during processing. This is a game progress
log of game-related events recording the activities of the players.
.TP
.BI "-h, --help"
Prints out a description of the command line options and exits.
.TP
.BI "-i, --info"
Extra info to be sent to the metaserver.
.TP
.BI "-l, --log"
Defines a log file to be produced during processing. Use the
.I -d
option to set how much is logged.
.TP
.BI "-m, --meta"
Directs the server to communicate with a metaserver, a place where Freeciv
servers can publish their presence. Freeciv clients consult the metaserver to
offer users a selection of games to join.
.TP
.BI "-M, --Metaserver"
Sets the metaserver address.
.TP
.BI "-p, --port"
Specifies the TCP port number to which clients will connect; players must know
this number to be able to connect if they are not to use the default of 5555
decimal. You may need to use this if 5555 is not available for your use on your
system.
.TP
.BI "-q, --quitidle"
Quit if no players present for the given number of seconds.
.TP
.BI "-e, --exit-on-end"
When a game ends, exit instead of restarting.
.TP
.BI "-r, --read"
Specifies a file of server commands which the server will automatically read and
process, as if you had typed them in at the server's prompt.
.TP
.BI "-v, --version"
Causes the server to display its version number and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
civserver --file oldgame.sav --port 2244

civserver -g gamelog -l logfile -r script -f oldgame.sav.gz
.SH COMMANDS
You may enter commands into the server at any time, either before or during the
running of a game. 

Type "help" or "help help" for starters.
.SH FILES
The Freeciv server requires the following files in the Freeciv data directory,
which is
.I /usr/local/share/freeciv
by default:

\(bu
.I default/buildings.ruleset

\(bu
.I default/techs.ruleset

\(bu
.I default/units.ruleset

These are the default rule sets used for the game. Alternate sets of rules can
be installed with the option settings "techs", "units", and "buildings", each of
which provides a name to replace the directory name "default".
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The Freeciv server accepts these environment variables:
.TP
.BI FREECIV_CAPS
A string containing a list of "capabilities" provided by the server. The
compiled-in default should be correct for most purposes, but if you are familiar
with the capability facility in the source you may use it to enforce some
constraints between clients and server.
.TP
.BI FREECIV_PATH
A colon separated list of directories pointing to the
.B freeciv
data directory. By default freeciv looks in the following directories, in order,
for any data files: the current directory; the "data" subdirectory of the
current directory; the subdirectory ".freeciv" in the user's home directory; and
the directory where the files are placed by running "make install".
.TP
.BI FREECIV_LOCAL_ENCODING
The local encoding to be used.
.TP
.BI http_proxy
Set this variable accordingly when using a proxy.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to
.UR
http://rt.freeciv.org/
.UE
\.
.SH "MORE INFO"
The Freeciv homepage is located at
.UR
http://www.freeciv.org/
.UE
\.

Updates and new info is first posted there.
.SH AUTHORS
The Freeciv Team <freeciv-dev AT freeciv.org>.

This manpage was put together by Florian Ernst <florian_ernst AT gmx.net> using
the Server Manual and the comments in the sourcecode. Feel free to use it as
you wish.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR civclient (6)
and the Server Manual on the Freeciv homepage.
