.\" Freeciv - Copyright (C) 1996 - A Kjeldberg, L Gregersen, P Unold
.\"   This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"   it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"   the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\"   any later version.
.\"
.\"   This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"   GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.TH FREECIV 6 "December 1997"
.SH NAME
civserver \- The server for the Freeciv game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B civserver
[
.I \-options
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Freeciv is a turn-based strategy game, in which each player becomes
leader of a civilization, fighting to obtain the ultimate goal:
The extinction of all other civilizations.

This is the server program used to establish a Freeciv server - See also
.IR civclient (6)
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 8
.BI \-help 
Show a simple help screen
.TP 8
.BI \-log " file"
Dump game-log to
.I file
.TP 8
.BI \-nometa
The server will not send reports to the meta-server about the
game.
.TP 8
.B \-file "savefile"
Specifies name of a savefile to load game from. This is the way
a server-operator restores a game.
.TP 8
.B \-port "number"
Specifies the port-number of the server.
.TP 8
.B \-version
Shows version of the client.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.PP
civserver -file oldgame.sav -port 2244
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR civclient (6)
.SH BUGS
.PP
No known
.SH "MORE INFO"
The Freeciv homepage is located at http://freeciv.ultraviolet.org.
Updates and new info is first posted there.

.SH AUTHORS
     Allan Ove Kjeldbjerg - allan@daimi.aau.dk
     Claus Leth Gregersen - leth@daimi.aau.dk
     Peter Joachim Unold  - pjunold@daimi.aau.dk
.SH ADMINISTRATORS
     Mitch Davis          - mjd@alphalink.com.au
     James Blackwell      - innocent@mercury.merconline.com
